The Joe Rogan experience. I don't wanna do it anymore.
And even saying that sounded crazy to me. She was like, she was just real quiet.
I'm thinking like, why is she not saying nothing? I was like,
I don't think I'm gonna do this anymore.
And she said something she had never said previously, typically she's like,
babe, look, it's not time. Come on. You gotta get up.
I'm know you feel this way. I know you're by. But come on.
I feel like you still got time in the sport. First time she ever agreed with me,
she was like, I think the decision has already made Dre. I was like, what?
I think the decision has already made. She said,
I've been looking at you throughout this whole day.
And some of the stuff you've been saying,
and I've never really seen you like this. She said, I think it's already made,
I took that out, bro. I started making phone calls. Wow. Called,
called my lawyer. Who's you know, one of my good friends, Josh Dubin. I said,
Hey bro, I think that may be it for me. And he had been wanting me to be,
you know, done. He was like, if you feel that way, bro, I'm gonna support you.
Call my manager the next morning. And it took us. So I went, I went,
I went that weekend and called the fight. We held off on the announcement.
My lawyer just told HBO like, look, he's going through some things. We're good.
Give us a couple days. So I got through that weekend and he said,
do you still feel like that come Monday morning? I was like, bro,
I think I'm done long story short. Uh,
we ended up announcing it September 21st. So it was like a two week period.
We were trying to keep it under wraps,
but I was undoing all the stuff I was letting the necessary, people know,
rock nation, HBO, everybody, you know? And um, the night before I announced it,
man, me and my good friend, um, who's a director. Uh, he's also directed my doc,
uh, Deontay Thompson. He, um, we put together this video.
It was like a legacy video where I had my young son,
my middle son and my oldest son. And those were like, those were like, you know,
that was me at that point in time in my career.
And we did this whole video that I was gonna announce my retirement with.
And um, and I actually have the doc that I'm working on right now is about this.
Like why did the best fighter at the world of the world at that time walk away
from the sport on top shot that video out, man, the my retirement bro.
And the response was just overwhelming. You know, it was overwhelming.
Like I just couldn't believe the amount of people that were reaching out and,
and it was, it, it was like good and bad.
Like it was good cause I was getting support, but it felt like somebody died.
Like I felt like I died, bro. <laugh>, I'm looking at these resting peace,
like not literal resting pieces, but like the comments were like resting peace.
Like bro, are you, I couldn't man. I'm what like war not you man.
Oh my God man. And it was just,
it was like just this huge reaction and
it was overwhelming. Um, and in the two years that followed,
like I said at, at the beginning of this podcast,
harder than I thought it was gonna be one of the hardest,
if not the hardest thing I've ever tried, had to do. And still like,
I still have to do like it a daily decision to be like,
I'm not doing it no more,
but one of the most rewarding man and it was a necessary evil.
And I hope that one day, man, the young guys can look up one day and say, man,
I'm gonna do the Andre award. I'm done. No. I mean, so I, you know, I've,
I've proposed in, in my.
Previous book that, uh, we have an anxiety set point that, um,
you know,
that let's say you're worried about something and all of a
sudden that gets resolved.
I just makes room for the next thing to work with. So, you know,
we each kind of fill that void because our brain is, you know,
we've developed a brain that has a certain kind of set point for everything it's
doing. And that just makes room for, you know, to fill that, fill that up.
If you're an anxious person, you probably will always be somewhat anxious.
So there's no magic bullet. That's going to take that out.
What you have to do is attack the process from knowledge of how it all
works.
And that requires that we have a more sophisticated understanding that we're
than, uh,
is possible from simply observing behavior because behavior does not tell you
necessarily what's on the mind. Behavior tells you how the, the,
the brain has responded. But you know, just to go back to the,
the fear threat example, um,
when let's say I, uh,
bring you into the laboratory and show you a picture of something
like a, a blue square, uh, my colleague glyhelps who used to be at NYU,
who is now at Harvard, did experiments like this. Uh,
and every time the blue square would come on,
the person would get a mild shock to their finger.
And so then she would present the blue square subliminally. That means,
you know, really quickly with the, you know, something that follows it,
the kind of mass that,
and that prevents the information from getting into the conscious mind. Uh,
and so the person, so I didn't see anything,
but if you put the person in an imaging machine F MRI
and, uh, image what's happening, that stimulus that threat,
the blue square gets to the Amy amygdala, turns it on the heart, begins to race,
palms or sweating. Um, but the person has no fear.
Hmm. The person doesn't know it's there. And doesn't experience fear.
The amygdala is not about fear.
It's about detecting and responding to danger in order to be afraid that
has to reach your C consci mind so that you can experience
it as a state of this autoeticic consciousness. The,
that we're talking about a self involved consciousness,
that's hard for people to separate. Yeah, well, but the idea that.
There's a, a physical response, but that your mind's not unaware.
Of it. Right. But when you understand that, that's why you become to understand.
That's why the medications are not working there targeted to work on these
underlying systems in rats are mice,
but that's not where we are experiencing our anxiety. And then he.
Just starts pointing at his face.
And then all his friends around him are pointing at him.
And the whole place was just staring and waiting and watching and wondering what
the hell's gonna happen. So like a, him, we filmed it before.
This is pre- Instagram put up on YouTube. It's like, I gotta do this.
Every show. This is incredible. And then six months later,
people started coming out with cake me signs.
<laugh> six years later, look at this. Okay, here we go.
So six years later, like I've,
I think I've caked over 15,000 people now <laugh>, you know.
Oh my God. Geez. Look at her, go crazy. You hit it right in the mug too, dude.
Perfect shot.
I'll tell you. I mean, you know, it just practice makes perfect, you know,
<laugh>.
Yeah. You've thrown 15,000 cakes. I get you get a, you get a feel for her.
Look at her. She's dancing. Yeah. Wiping it up. Let.
Me see one more time. <laugh> this is like, uh, that was ultra. Oh.
Oh my goodness.
We have a cake rider. We have very specific cakes at our, you know, uh,
at our show you have a, it's a, it's like a special Aoki cake. What is in it?
The strange thing is there. There's like, not as much cake as you would think.
It's just like frosting it's just so it just explodes everywhere.
So it's less bread. Yes.
So like less carbs, more sugar. <laugh> well, you,
you diabetic just get out of the front row, please. <laugh>.
What a crazy thing for people to enjoy too.
Cause caked in the face lady was having a good time that.
That's okay.
That's the most important thing at the end of the day is like my cake, me.
With a bulleye.
Okay. This is very normal for me to see <laugh> you know,
like in some cases there's like 50, 50 people with signs up, you know? So, oh,
that's.
So crazy. Look at that cake face one of the upper, oh, I want cake in my.
Face. <laugh> yeah. I mean, it's just a, it's a signature part of the show.
It's fun. It's exciting. Cause.
They closed it off to the public. Yeah. And it got 0% on rotten tomatoes.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> they then opened it to the public and it got 99%.
Of course.
If that doesn't show a crazy disparity between mm-hmm <affirmative> first of
all, the idea that you're gonna suppress it, like you're gonna say it's 0%,
so no one's gonna watch it. And we're gonna shut Dave Chapelle down.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> he's canceled. him. But people love him. You can't.
Cancel someone who doesn't care, man. Well, you.
Can't cancel Dave Chappelle. No you can't. But on top of that,
like the,
how would they not understand that someone is going to know that you're not
opening it up to the public? Yeah. And that once it does get open to the public,
you're gonna get a massive whiplash, a backlash where people are gonna to come.
And even if they didn't wanna vote on it, now they do. Yeah.
And now they're gonna give it a hundred percent or 99%.
I knew I had to watch it when I saw how all the media channel,
many of the media channels that I really dislike and do not respect
were coming so hard at it and saying, oh no, you don't need to watch it.
And all this, I was like, oh, this means I absolutely have to watch it.
The guardian game in the UK gave it one star. And then I saw vice saying like,
don't watch it, uh, VX saying, don't watch it. I was like, okay, this is,
this means that I have to watch this. This is gonna be good. And I wasn't.
Disappointed. Well,
the influence of a small group of relatively small group of human
beings that are in charge of these media conglomerates is it's really
astounding and that they, it's not just opinion.
Right? It's like, they're,
they're trying to get people to behave and think the way they do.
It's not just, yeah, it is activism. Yeah. And, and it's, it's also
it's undiguised activism. Mm it's very transparent activism. Mm it's.
In opposed to journalism,
I really wish there was a place where we could go where we can get
100% unbiased information in news. Yeah.
And we can get an honest perspective of both sides.
This side believes this mm-hmm and this is why they believe that.
But this side believes that,
and this is why they believe that it's very hard to do mm-hmm and if you have a
podcast,
one of the things that's really interesting is if you even talk to someone who
has an opposing point of view of yours or who is right wing or
who maybe has questionable ideas,
you are somehow platforming them and supporting their idea and then supporting
some alt white alt-right ideology. And.
Because this is not an, a representation of reality. Oh, okay.
And anything that deviates from reality is reality that has filtered through
your senses and art at its highest is exactly that
if this was an exact depiction of reality,
it would be a photograph and I don't need the artist. Hmm. Okay.
So even photographs that take you to a slightly other kind of dimension
as you gaze upon them, it's more than what was actually going on at the time.
And that's, that's art take into the craft of photography.
That's why you like it. That's, it's one of the reasons why,
plus I think it was the very first
painting where its title is the background.
Think about that. This could have been called, uh, you know,
in the full painting. Obviously this is a, a, a snippet. Yeah. Yeah.
So there's a town there, there's a Cypress tree. There's a church steeple.
It could have been called Cypress tree.
It could have been called sleepy village.
It could have been called rolling Hills,
but no it's called starry night and everything in front of it,
everything in front of it is just in the way.
And how often do you paint something where the title is the background?
That that's my point. And in this particular case,
the background is the universe. And so, so for me,
this was a pivot point in art and it's uh, 1889,
which is recent given the history of, of paintings. And you know,
that go all the way back. So yeah, there, there it is.
Is that your favorite painting ever?
I had.
Have to say yes.
It has to be, you have a vest and a phone call <laugh> if it's not,
what are you doing?
And I,
I have four or five ties that have this painting on them in different ways.
Yeah. So, well, what's put that. I'm all in.
I'm all in. What's interesting is.
That the town is, wait, wait, have you seen starry Knight in bacon?
Somebody did look at, dig it up on the screen. Somebody did it in bacon.
It was just CR <laugh>. Oh.
God. How weird.
<Laugh> yeah. So that's weird. Yeah. How.
Weird go back to the original one please.
<laugh> what's interesting about the original one is that the town is
realistically depicted. The trees are recognizable as trees.
If you ever saw a sky that looked like that, the end would be here. Yeah.
E exactly. Plus that swirling is not wind and it's not clouds because if it was,
if it was clouds, you wouldn't see the stars. Right. Well start, uh,
it's how he felt. That's all I can tell you, by the way, that is a real evening.
So that's sorry. It's not even, even it's early morning. The Crescent moon,
when it's that orientation means this is before sunrise and that white object
lower on the horizon. That's sort of glow. That's very likely Venus.
And that enables us to trace what's over what set of weeks
this painting was actually, uh, painted.
I.